## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CoqWG20140131
## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/NextCoqWG
## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CRGTCoq20131126
## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CRGTCoq20130709
<<TableOfContents>>

= Organisation =

The WG took place on friday April 4th at Sophie Germain,
3rd floor, in the morning, from 9.30am to noon (coffee at 9am). No talks
were given, it was mainly a developers meeting about the status of
8.5 and the remaining issues associated to it.

= Talking points =

 * -R/-I (15min)
 * .aux and .native files vis-a-vis Makefiles (15min)
 * Guardedness check patch (30min)
 * [instantiate] tactic in the new proof engine (30min)
 * Survey results (15min)
 * Consortium (30min)
 * Other issues (30mins-1hour).
  * Locality stuffs : Bug 3206 (Arguments), Bug 3264 (rewrite)
  * ideslave protocol status
 * Status of migrating coq web services (if time permits)

= Participants =

Bruno Barras, Pierre Boutillier, Maxime Denès (remotely), Yann
Régis-Gianas, Julien Forest, Hugo Herbelin, Pierre Letouzey, Guillaume
Melquiond, Matthieu Sozeau, Bas Spitters, Arnaud Spiwack, Pierre-Marie
Pédrot, Enrico Tassi

= Guardness =

 * Maxime implemented a restriction of the guardness criterion in situations such as "f (match c with ... => b end)" which preserves consistency with axioms such as propositional extensionality.

 * Discussion on backporting the patch to 8.4 as it happens that requiring the file Ensembles.v, which states propositional extensionality, is inconsistent with the commutative cuts extension of the guard:

  * For 8.4pl4: too late because it has to be made on now

  * For 8.4pl5: Maxime proposes to turns his patch into a warning whenever the extension of the guard which is inconsistent with propositional extensionality is used

= Primitive integers =

 * Native compilation not yet aware that Int31 can be compiled to words. Maxime will do it for 8.5

 * Discussion on having primitive integers in the syntax of constr for 8.5. Maxime would prefer to wait for next version

= Native compilation =

 * Do we keep the files .aux and .native as they are: yes

= Ideslave protocol status =

 * Initial communication should be textual and not ocaml marshalling so that e.g. vi can communicate with coq.

 * Question about separating the release of CoqIDE from Coq: People developing IDE's should talk (Pierre Courtieu, Thomas Refis, Enrico Tassi, Pierre Letouzey, ...)

= Options -R, -I and -L =

 * Long discussion. Patch from Guillaume Melquiond is accepted.

= Tactic "instantiate" =

 * Tactic "instantiate" does not support instantiation of variables of the context which were not named explicitly. Arnaud will update the documentation accordingly.

= Other points =

 * Paper on Coq: nothing new at this time
 * Action de Développement Technologique has been accepted
 * Consortium: Matthieu is willing to make progress on the consortium, taking contact with Yves
 * Yann asks about making the development of coqdoc asynchronous to the one of Coq

= Status of migrating coq web services =

 * Move to Jenkins for benches
 * Pierre B., Matthieu are going to proceed
