## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CRGTCoq20131126
## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CRGTCoq20130709
<<TableOfContents>>

This page is used to organize the next Coq Working Group (in french GT Coq).

= Organisation =
The next WG will happen June 6th at PPS/Sophie Germain

= Talks =

If you intend to give a talk, please add your name and title here and any information you'd like to give.

  * Carst Tankink, A Quick jEdit+Coq demo (15min). I'll give a quick demo of the adaptation of Isabelle/jEdit's codebase to work with Coq, to allow asynchronous proof authoring.
  * Pierre Boutillier, Review and proposal about Man power organization in Coq. (20min + discussions)

= Talking points =

  * (Meta)data storage and installation (.glob, .aux, .cm*, .native, .o, .v, .vo, ...)
  * SDK and precompiled plugins for 8.5
  * Towards a bit more primitive notations for the standard library (e.g. for "existT", "exist", "proj1_sig", etc, for "S", for "eq_rect", for groupoid laws of equality, ...)?
  * avoiding re-typing ltac bindings at use-time?
  * Update on the migration of web/bugzilla/contribs, benchmarking tools
  * release process, bug support policy

If you have suggestions for discussions, questions broad or specific, please elaborate here.
