This page is used to organize the next Coq Working Group (in French GT Coq). The framadate link to decide which day it will happen is:

> <https://framadate.org/gtpksTqOKNOmLpws>

Organization
============

The next Coq Working Group will take place on October 3rd and 4th at Inria Paris (2, rue Simone Iff). The room for the two days is Jacques-Louis Lions 1.

Streaming and recorded video will be available from M. Sozeau's YouTube channel: <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCgI_DseUNWbA9_tO88fyhoQ>.

Schedule
========

October 3rd
-----------

-   9:00 Coffee
-   10:00 8.7 debrief, recent evolution of the release management (T. Zimmermann and M. Dénès)
-   10:30 8.8 roadmap (M. Dénès)
-   11:00 Discussion on the future of tactics and SSReflect (T. Zimmermann)
-   12:00 Lunch
-   13:30 Strategic Priorities in Coq Development (E. Gallego)
-   14:00 PR discussion (part I)
-   19:00 Social event (TBA)

[Some notes about this first day](files/WG20171003/first_day_notes.txt)

October 4th
-----------

-   9:00 Coffee
-   10:00 Coq Communities (E. Gallego)
-   11:00 Unifall status (M. Sozeau) [Unifying Unifiers 2.pdf](files/WG20171003/Unifying_Unifiers_2.pdf)
-   11:30 Plan for the standard library (T. Zimmermann)
-   12:00 Lunch
-   13:30 Fun with template-coq (M. Sozeau) [Fun with Template-Coq.pdf](files/WG20171003/Fun_with_Template-Coq.pdf)
-   14:00 Moving to GitHub issues (T. Zimmermann) Here is the link to my experiment: <https://github.com/Zimmi48/bugzilla-test/>
-   14:30 PR discussion (part II)

PR authors should get prepared to lead a quick discussion on each of them. Here is the list of the PRs we will try to discuss:

-   [Iff as a proper connective](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/140) (herbelin)
-   [Experiment in bindings sumbool and sumor to sum](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/306) (herbelin)
-   [Adding a flag to support different naming modes for evar hypotheses.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/307) (herbelin)
-   [Scoped options](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/313) (ppedrot)
-   [Fix \#4959: Ltac match fails to match Type with Type](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/323) (maximedenes)
-   [Reducing temporary allocations in CClosure](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/400) (ppedrot)
-   [An intropattern-style variant for split](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/410) (herbelin)
-   \[pp\] Optimized Pp.t\` gluing.\`\_ (ejgallego)
-   [Make some keywords into normal idents](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/616) (SkySkimmer\_)
-   [\[plugins\] Remove Derive plugin.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/682) (ejgallego)
-   [Refine test for unresolved evars to be less sensitive to unification …](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/786) (mattam82)
-   [mli-only files outside API](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/797) (letouzey)
-   [Deprecate Proof term.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/827) (Zimmi48)
-   [an attempt to document known API problems](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/866) (matejkosik)
-   [New strategy based on open scopes for deciding which notation to use among several of them](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/873) (herbelin)
-   [Turning warning for deprecated notations on.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/884) (herbelin)
-   [Removing support for 8.5 compatibility.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/887) (herbelin)
-   [Fix rewrite in \* side conditions](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/915) (herbelin)
-   [New beta-iota compatibility refinements](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/922) (herbelin)
-   [Handling evars in the VM](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/935) (ppedrot)
-   [Uniformize references to Bugzilla](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/960) (Zimmi48)
-   [Create checklist for pull requests.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/975) (Zimmi48)
-   [In printing, experimenting factorizing "match" clauses with same right-hand side.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/978) (herbelin)
-   [Miscellaneous extensions of notations (including granting BZ5585)](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/982) (herbelin)
-   [intros '(x,y)](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/1003) (herbelin)
-   [Add HashConsing option](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/1013) (psteckler)
-   [changed statements of Rpower\_lt and Rle\_power and added lemmas](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/1026) (ybertot)
-   [Restore safety mechanisms on kernel names.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/1034) (silene)
-   [Restoring test on ident validity while browsing directory structure.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/1054) (herbelin)
-   [Iris CI: use opam to install dependencies](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/1067) (RalfJung\_)
-   [\[general\] Move declare to pretyping.](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/1091) (ejgallego)

