## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CoqWG20150915
## page was renamed from CoqDevelopment/NextCoqWG
## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CRGTCoq20131126
## page was copied from CoqDevelopment/CRGTCoq20130709
<<TableOfContents>>

This page is used to organize the next Coq Working Group (in French GT Coq). The framadate link to decide which day it will happen is:

 . https://framadate.org/S8v3Q21TcZfqCRCx

= Organization =
The next Coq Working Group will take place on April 15th at Sophie Germain, PPS on the 3rd floor.

= Topics for discussion =
 * Roadmap and calendar for 8.6

=== Pierre Courtieu proposes: ===
 * About ways to display goals and error messages in a more compact way (10mn max)

=== Emilio proposes: ===
If there's time and interest I could lead:

 * Review of PR#143: IMHO is mostly ready to go but there's a funny thing happening in trunk.

 * Commentary of PR#145: Not ready to merge yet, but I could explain what the problem is trying to solve, and what is the current (far from perfect) solution)

 * Evolution of the API for IDEs: I have some ideas towards evolving the current API for IDEs, this could be a good project to do for at the Hackcoqton, but I'd be great to have some feedback now.

=== Paul Steckler proposes: ===
 * improving code sharing between rewrite and setoid_rewrite
 * memoizing repeated operations in setoid_rewrite, maybe involving typeclass instantiation
 * mechanism for testing tactic timing benchmarks and notification of anomalies, via Jenkins or other tool; which tactics should be benchmarked

=== Assia proposes: ===
 * News from the [[http://www.cost.eu/COST_Actions/ca/CA15123?management|EUtypes]] COST action (10 min)
